So now that we had a very close look at that whole express middleware thing and how routing works in
express and how we can use that to our advantage, how we can filter routes and so on,
let's actually start working on what we serve to the user.
Thus far it has always been some dummy html content but you're probably not in the course to just learn
how to build dummy html content,
so let's return some real html files to the user that also don't look like crap.
For this I'll create a new folder in my project and I'll name it views,
now that name is up to you,
you can also name that folder whatever you want but in that course, we will slowly go towards a MVC,
a model view controller structure and I will explain what this is a little bit later.
One part of it is that we manage our views,
so what we serve to the user in one place of our application in the views folder here. Now the views
will just be a bunch of html files here though.
So I'll create a new file and that will be my shop.html file,
it's a file I want to serve for users visiting just slash and I also want to have my add product file here.
So I'll add add-product.html, later by the way in case you already know the concept of templating
engines, we'll use these two so that we can dynamically add content into the html files
but for now, let's just start with these files.
So let's start here in add-product.html and now here's one important note,
if you're not interested in writing that html code, you can skip this lecture now and find the finished
html code attached to this and the next lecture.
So if you want to skip,
you can do that and just follow along in the next lecture where I will provide that finished html
code
otherwise let's now create it together.
So in this add-product.html file,
I'll now create a new html5 skeleton and visual studio code helps you with that,
as you saw if you just type html5, it should open this pop-up, if it doesn't you can force it by typing
or by hitting control and space and then navigate to html5 with the arrow keys and hit enter and
it gives you this nice skeleton which basically defines a basic, well html skeleton.
Now here I'll change the title to add product and in the body, there
I now want to have my form.
I don't just want to have the form in there though, I also want to have some navigation bar that allows
me to switch to my shop.html
page, to the slash route and the other way around.
So here I will
first of all add a header and in that header, I'll add a nav bar and in that nav bar, I'll add an unordered
list with list items which are links where I go to slash,
so this is just my shop
and then another list item, add product which will be /add product.
This is the page we're on here but I always want to show both options,
obviously you can write the html code that fits your needs.
So this is the header,
it will be pretty unstyled for now,
we'll add styling too
and now let's add a main section too,
so this is also a normal html element which holds or which should hold the content of our page here. And
there
I want to have my form with the action that is also add product,
remember here we're then targeting this post route and in there or there, I will add my post method and
I will now also add my input here, the input of type text with a name of title and I will add my button
of type submit here which I'll label add product.
Now we will add more to this form later because a product is obviously not just made up of a title
but for now, this will do.
We got our form in here,
let's now copy that entire html code and paste it into the shop.html
file
and there of course in the main section, I don't want to have a form
instead a h1 tag my products and below that later in the course, we will render all the products.
So here we will have a list of all the products and
right now we don't have that but we'll get there
once we learn how to manage data on the server and so on.
Now the rest of the page can stay the same for both pages
and again as I mentioned, styling is missing.
Let's now move onto the next lecture where the goal will be to serve these html pages before we then
work on the styling.